There’s an organisation called Parkrun that organise free 5Km runs around the world (mostly in the UK where it was established). I take part occasionally. They publish results to their website every week for each run (e.g. http://www.parkrun.org.uk/reigatepriory/results/weeklyresults/?runSeqNumber=136) although they don’t (as far as I can tell) allow access to the underlying database. Even so, I figure it would be relatively easy (if slightly time consuming) to collate quite a lot of the results data and perhaps combine it with some geographical information about the route of the run, combine it with weather observations on the day of the run, perhaps try and combine it also with tweets regarding those runs and maybe other sets. This data could then be analysed to spot patterns in people’s behaviours. What causes people to stop or return to a run after a period of time? How are the conditions related to people’s performance? Are there patterns in the different Parkruns that people choose that could be used to recommend other Parkruns to particular runners? Are some runs “happier” than others? The results could be useful to runners who would be curious to see the analysis, or useful to the organisers in keeping participation high.


A friend of mine is a director of quite a popular ski holiday tour operator. They sell holidays in a lot of properties in a lot of resorts around Europe and a good number of those properties can be found on Tripadvisor (I haven’t checked other travel sites). It might be possible to scrape the reviews on Tripadvisor then combine them with data on the type of resort (how many beginner/intermediate/expert runs. Distance from airport, possible weather patterns) and come up with a recommendation engine, or some other kind of interesting observations. There may be the possibility of combining these sets with proprietary company data on customers for even more interesting analysis subject to the requisite permissions and anonymization of the data.


The UK government has released data detailing British diet, collected from surveys (families keeping diaries), over the years from 1974 to 2000 (http://britains-diet.labs.theodi.org/ and  https://data.gov.uk/dataset/family_food_open_data) . This data could be combined with other data on obesity levels over some of that period and analysis of the data performed to see what patterns emerge. The results of the analysis would be of interest to health officials wanting to better understand the relationship between health and food choices.
